today um if you have anything to add to
the agenda the etherpad sorry the hack
pad or what do you call it is there in
the links please add any items that you
want to add but the agenda is to out
give an update on orbit then there is
something regarding private east it's
more of a prototype I did um yesterday
and then there's a hackathon coming in
Berlin for distributed um decentralized
apps that i wanted to mention and you
get the word out if people are
interested to join that on there will be
ok fess developers him in that event so
should be fairly interesting renaming
Cole so should we start with an orchid
update yeah so there's the link to the
water board in the chat on and it is
pretty much up to date the thing is I
haven't been online as much in the past
couple of weeks since I was sick and
taking holidays so some of the items
that were done are actually gone from
the done column right now but basically
what's happening is um I'm still working
on improving the documentation for orbit
or DB hold of different modules that we
have it's almost done there is few few
smaller items left that I hope to finish
this week one of them one of the big
ones being basically separating orbit
into its own module so that you can just
NPM install orbit and start using it as
as you would from your JavaScript
programs um and then there's yeah couple
of other things i think the cleaner
local state is done i just need to vary
that's one something you requested some
quite some time ago do this time I think
we lost family at the moment ah the
internet
you
so noticeable is God is there anything
else we can do perhaps
for is only prints the only person
that's not on things which is that this
should probably need an already call
specifically and it's in that case some
late I still only one who believed that
that said there's probably other stuff
that fits on the EPS on IPS thought if
anybody else has anything um I was
coming here just to talk a little bit I
don't have any other apps on a sack of
it hey sorry about that i just dropped
don't know what happened but hey we got
new people on the call so should do that
more often like this alright so what was
the last thing that you heard I was
doing an orbit update and then I got dis
kidding so let's go back to the waffle
board if you still have the link in the
chat if not words again so what's
happening right now is um we have some
new people contributing to orbit feel
bad Theo if you're listening thank you
very much for the work you've done so
far on he's working on the ability to
configure the demon I confess settings
at the start of orbit this is quang you
you've been asking for a long time so
that's going to be really sweet so like
the the data folder data directory for I
kept as the addresses bootstrap nodes of
what not you can you can edit and
configure those in the UI directly um
and yeah then like I said I was working
on separating the orbit toots and module
so that's pretty much it um next up
let's take a quick look at the roadmap
which is here link in the chat
so as we set the milestones some months
ago on improving documentation and
developer experience almost done with
that still need to work on your
remaining items on then the next big
thing is product design for orbit and
the wet version of orbit um I think I'm
actually going to push the product
design after the wet version so that we
can get on the j sipi stuff working
faster like landing pops up in ok so I
profess which is required for orbit to
be able to work again in in the browser
and after that i'll i'll start with the
with the product design but anyone
listening there i would very much like
you to participate in the product design
discussion for poor orbit there's few
notes but like i would like to hear what
what you think and what ideas you have
for or organ as a whole let me get the
link here this is the discussion so
that's basically what's happening in
orbit um yeah any any notes or questions
regarding that or no why I
that's about like where we are in our
madman and where things start coming us
on and like that structure of us I think
we're a bit behind another one if
anything needs to be hot or not and what
did to mention a couple of things said
in the last week or so try to them over
to people and just repeatedly again the
guy comes up like people's desire to
want to be able to like try out or the
on the web or trying a demo on a
computer we're trying to demo it to them
if it's not on the web that's on a and I
quote and then I can't create two
instances of it luckily so right now it
is extremely difficult to demo orbit it
off um and even when putting the app
from one computer into an unclear it's
many times it just doesn't work or is
not their life just and whether it's two
demons managed to connect or not managed
to connect there's very little
information that organ itself can give
you to be able to live like this so
that's my experience of it so I mention
that anybody else try to use it it's
finding equally hard um challenges so I
think I don't know whether this is
latest muscle and stuff or what but I
know I think getting all of that into
place as soon as we can with the ideal
and I don't know this is a developer
experience on some of the next one um
but I love to be able to like have a
working look totally agreed and me to
then the feedback has been similar from
from other places as well especially
people want to try it the the web
version because they don't want to
download or go and build the dab on and
clonite drum get up and so on on so
that's kind of why I'm pulling the the
web version of orbit milestone closer
and leave the product design later and
the other stuff so that we can get into
a well working state
sooner than what we originally planned
on the on the connectivity so two
instances on on the same machine this
should be fixed when we get the
configurable um login screen so that you
can do that we we were checking into
then I think it was it's supposed to
work but maybe it's not so I'll confirm
that and see what what's happening there
but um totally agree and that's one of
the goals for for that particular thing
is to make sure that you can boot up two
different instances of orbit um
regarding the connectivity so that's
that's a trickier thing I've been trying
to debug that um before I went on
holidays and to hurting my holidays it's
basically not connecting the peers on
the pub sub is not getting the messages
through and sometimes it takes two
seconds to connect sometimes it takes 10
seconds sometimes it takes a minute
sometimes they don't hear and connect
and I not sure how I can start debugging
that probably need to talk to Jeremy as
to what is happening and try to get some
data for him and go from there but if
you have any suggestions how to go about
it that would be great in the meanwhile
what I did was I added a public orbit
note so that anybody can connect it and
I kind of force all the clients to
download one particular hash that just
says app equals orbit basically so that
maybe that helps with the discovery but
I'm not sure how exactly it works so I I
need to debug more to see what what's
going on and yeah that's
that's basically it I also don't know
why they're not connecting all the time
or every time and that that sucks that
really sucks because it basically breaks
the whole user experience and yeah
that's it's really tricky that it just
doesn't show any feedback whatsoever you
know on whether or not you're connected
to anyone in the same channel or
anything I think that would help people
who understand what's going wrong um
right now it's just like completely
right and so complicated because all of
the demon and become pain in the path
that are all in like ran out quick and
very internet kisses so even for people
who live like know what's going on
Facebook it it's just almost impossible
yeah it's only be proved on the orbits
I'd even be on Survivor has itself
mystery missions these things connect
but orbit itself should make it
extremely easy to be able to develop
figure out what's going on ya allah i'll
see what we can do you about the
debugging but at the same time like
debugging my side um i would love it to
be i would love it to work right and i
think right now i'll need to find some
kind of workarounds to to make sure that
there is some kind some kind of data
about what's happening so i was thinking
maybe add a kind of ping pong system to
buy a buck pops up where everyone's just
like pinging all the time so that at
least you know something um and I don't
know what other solution site where your
possibilities at one you should have
enough information already from the
human that you can show on the orbit you
I you can show who isn't you have some
notion of losing your puzzle / you have
some notion of how do I get that
it's not part of the interface and
that's that was dropped at some point
but the information isn't going to us
okay then it is probably dropped at some
point because I didn't know that that
existence exists that would be that
would be actually like one of the things
that would make it easier to to give
some kind of feedback on in the client
to know if you know you're connected to
anyone or not I'll less Jeremy about it
and see where it's at yeah I think the
general think here is that for all these
kinds of things just orbit itself should
be able to tell you what appears to be
going wrong you should have its own
internal model of like what is happening
and how to set up to the user um this is
a you know there's a big difference
between hey it can't connect to anyone
yet it's at work versus I can't find a
specific I can't find anybody else in
this channel and so all of those things
are different um I already needs to be
able to protect those because the users
will be using this in a variety of
things right this is not like a totally
centralized saying or like either you're
connected to all the one thing and
everything works or nothing works I'm
much more complicated scenario where you
have many things that can go wrong or go
correctly and the only way we can hope
to I do this correctly is if we can be
very very period of what's happening
wrong and that users really know how to
dress it up right like for the race hey
like they're actually not going to be
involved with a mouth like this many
other computers or MBA like maybe
there's who gets into orbit and they're
not complete they're just not able to
find each other oh yeah remember it
rings I love up put all this higher on
my prior the list to continue the
debugging and see what can be done with
that as well as adding some feedback
like adding are you connected to anyone
in the network or are you alone that's
an easy one because that we know
okay okay can you um give me a link on
piracy or somewhere I'll take a look at
it so in any case yeah totally agree it
pains me that it's not working at the
moment and I really want to get this
like all of that um addressed as well as
possible it's tricky but we'll get there
so yeah
anything else on orbit no let's move on
to the next topic so I wanted to quickly
mention something that I was working on
yesterday which is basically kind of how
the how orbit DB works at the moment is
that there is no notion of um access
right so that you know like you can
write to this but you cannot write to
this or the other person kind of right
to this log like everybody can go on
orbit channel and and join it basically
so what I've been thinking is how can we
make some kind of access control that
you know we can limit who can pose to
what or who can join a channel and this
I'm talking about orbit but under the
hood it's the same for all the databases
in in orbit DB so I made a quick
prototype yesterday which basically
gives us a possibility to have the so
the data structure merged in a way that
only specific keys can can write to a
specific database so if i have if i
create a database in order to DB and i
say only this key can write to it then
only that key can write to it so when
when I have the the private key I'm the
only one to to be able to write to it's
not very far yet and I'm you're not sure
if it's the right solution but it's kind
of nice to see that you know will will
be able to do that at some point so um
one of the things I've been asking for a
long time is the key story i'm not sure
that exactly does what we need to and so
on but possibly so just wanted to share
that but um it might be possible one
but you should be able to store keys
yourself for now like don't really don't
wait on Easter yeah you know yeah
usually looking some case yourself for
now you have some regular or by later
and that pinky told me private face i
think you mean red like right right
access controlled peace because anybody
can also be done right or not affected
yeah exactly they're not encrypted I've
it I bit specifically me means things
that are imperative as well um yeah yeah
yeah I think right access keys is much
better than private keys because it's
not really private you're right but um
yeah so we'll see where that goes if
there's anyone out there interested to
to work on this kind of a problem um
contact me or or anyone on the IPF s
community and we'll get you sorted this
is this a nice problem to to work on oh
so then the berlin hackathon so there
will be a as far as I understood a
global theorem hackathon on the weekend
of 25th to 27th of November so in two
weeks and as part of that there will be
a local hackathon in Berlin uh which is
about um hacking on distributed
decentralized apps using theorem or
other Curt severe in technologies and
some of the ideas developers will be
dead so if anyone out there is
interested in that kind of event will
post some information on the hippest
community and get your input and come
join us so
yeah that was that was what I had any so
there's one more agenda item which is
make this cold orbit specifically who
added that do you really want to do that
we need a call from orbit specifically
that runs like the other calls where we
go over the road map we talk about that
what's coming and we make a venue for
everyone who's interested in the
development orbit to come in and discuss
it only 15 minutes and it makes sense to
have a short haul and end it early on
with the place right now with yours
later you're only really soliciting
morbid things so we should just say that
other ways other people are not just
going to come in and have other app
states because ability to actually have
like a dedicated app tonight because
hang out as we used to have it I'm
performing organs like now graduate into
this phone large thing and there's a lot
things that are going on there after
this in when there's stuff that there's
some orbits of being a public thing go
there's probably be related things where
users may come in with questions there's
a nobody giving from a defense to right
there's a promise out there um and so no
you don't watch today but I think in the
coming weeks we'll have a lot more I'm
fine with that the idea someone proposed
that um some weeks ago when we're
talking about bringing the app so i kept
his back and as far as I understood it
was a request also from the community to
bring the apps um hang out back I'm find
both ways I would love to have the the
forum for everyone in the community to
talk about abs in general and not just
about orbit perhaps this is something
Matt um you could gauge with the
community see how much there's interest
to talk about apps specifically or apps
in more general way or if people just
want to talk about orbit I don't know
yeah i can i can try to gauge that I
it's not quite clear what is the best
form for seeking like for trying to do
that litmus test right now um there's in
my interactions with people building
apps on I PFS almost all of them I end
up encouraging them to look at our big
TV so it that's part of why I like to me
that title made sense because it's um if
you say that the call is about orbit and
people who are trying to use orbitz DB
might assume oh that's not for me when
actually those people should be on this
call and should be following the
development of Orca TV and hearing about
pub sub and like what's the status of
making pups of work and hear the things
that over to be like is like improving
on right now like all of those things
are things that a large majority of
people doing absent on a PFS will want
to be we want them to be following those
things so that that was more my thinking
of like why the apps on a PFS title
makes sense yeah no really I'm fine
doing it either way um but let's try to
get a some kind of feedback from the
whole community because we're on the cue
people and see if there's interest in
apps in general and and then do an
additional or like keep this as apps and
and then do orbit separately or we
change the name of this session to two
orbiting yeah does this hand up in the
night I have my head yeah victory so
maybe it does make sense to just keep
this call us absolutely of us for now
because there is not a lot of people
showing anything and have orbits there
as a filler of the content and then once
we get more we will be naturally move
into a more general ideas abstain while
for now orbits is still upon my bffs we
cannot does make sense to have this cool
yeah that was that was sort of my
thinking if this gets too crowded with
other things that are not orbit that's a
great problem to have
and then we can figure out how to
schedule for it um my so I agree with
that with pictures point there the the
thing I was going to ask us like where
do we where would where should I pose
this question to the community should I
put it in I PFS / community and like
open a github issue to ask that is it
something that would would go into
discourse if this course was going full
force right now is this um if we were a
community that used a mailing list it
would go on the mailing list IRC is
definitely not the right place because
then if someone's not logged into IRC
they won't see it picture so there is no
reason we can't put it in multiple
channels like we have the awesome a PFS
we can also pin people or slowly that we
do know that or building apps and also
in the community and it just makes sense
to like breathe it out as as much as
possible to get people to comment I
think
all right i'll make it i'll make an
issue for broadcasting that question and
gathering feedback Thank You Man um I
guess that's our time for today yeah
half an hour early so we're done on
thank you everyone for the short and
sweet session thank you for a feedback
one especially and let's continue see
you next week phone apps on I profess
and on the script next right